speak now to Maran bishara Al jaz's
senior political analyst he's joining us
from Paris via Skype Maran prime
minister
Netanyahu he met with Biden a bit
earlier and now this is his second
meeting of the day and we've seen Biden
in the past be to some extent frustrated
with Netanyahu and a lack of agreement
is that the sort of tone that Harris
will take at this stage also considering
that uh she was one of the first to call
for a ceasefire
yes we don't expect uh Harris to stray
far from the position and the policy of
the Biden administration at this point
in time she's definitely going to pre be
preoccupied with her own campaign the
next three months and it is not wise for
her to be uh contradicting uh her
president and the present president of
the United States on an issue that
so-called controversial in the United
States and might um you know cause her
problem she's GNA have to walk a tight
Trope there's absolutely no doubt about
that because she on the one hand she
wants to stay loyal to Biden and to his
policy and she is careful with the
Israel Lobby on the other hand she had
uh shown intention leaning
towards uh sort of bridging to the pr
Progressive the progressive arm of the
democratic party I think that is
important that's why it's a tight Trope
on the one hand she expressed some sort
of an emotional attachment to those who
were protesting at the uh American
universities for examples she did talk
about the humanitarian situation in Gaza
more than the others she apparently
according to one report in the New York
Times appealed to the White House to
talk more emphasize more the Palestinian
suffering and so on so forth so
apparently there's a bit of a
Nuance but that Nuance remains limited
and I'm not sure it's going to be
effective in the next uh six months
perhaps if we have a president Harris
come January
2025 maybe there will be a bit of a
difference uh from where Biden because
she is in fact not like Biden Biden is a
an
ideologically liberal interventionist he
called himself as Zionist he has been
unconditionally supporting un unraveling
genocide in Palestine and the various
war crimes carried by Netanyahu he
expressed frustration with Netanyahu but
never really acted on it she's also
nothing like Trump she's not a sort of
an extreme right uh nationalist populist
of the type that Trump has proven to be
the past six years so she's of a
different type and and hopefully her
sensibilities also as a woman I should
add uh as as someone who supports Union
social justice and various other
equality issues in the United States
would extend to foreign policy as well
now if I could just another one last uh
comment on her because that's really
important where she stood and and how
she stood in her book The truths we hold
she doesn't express any uh belief or
position on foreign policy of any
you know importance when she became
Senator however she did play you know
the the the Israel Lobby Playbook she
did parrot the Israel Lobby line she
even undermined President Obama on the
question of the illegality of the
Israeli settlements so she's proved to
be pragmatic and she kind of goes with
the wind and it depends on how much
pressure from the Israel lobby but yet I
would say for the time being that she
might prove to be slightly better than
Biden and far better than Trump on
issues such as Israel Palestine Maran
returning to Netanyahu specifically and
he's told hostage families uh families
who are demanding that hostages be
returned that Israel will submit um he
said an updated ceasefire proposal to
Hamas within 2 days what do you make of
that I think Netanyahu has not stopped
being the pathological liar he is I
don't believe a single word uttered out
of his mouth he's really like you know a
proven liar everyone that dealt with him
including his most close allies today
today right like uh like minister of
Treasury in Israel today one of the most
radical ministers SMR called him the
liar of all liars so the man lies right
we expect him to lie until proven
otherwise now he's definitely going to
have to pay the card with the hostage
families and he's definitely going to
tell the captives families that uh you
know he's trying to do his best this and
that and other thing now having said
that the war has definitely run its
course including in Raa and clearly as
Biden has warned since March there needs
to be another way of dealing with the
situation in Gaza because this cannot
continue open-ended so I think the thing
the the the issue of the so-called
three-phase ceasefire has matured it is
time for it to happen it's not happening
because once again the Biden
Administration is not putting enough
pressure it's not using its leverage
with Israel your earlier guest Aon David
Miller who was part and parcel of the
American Diplomat he said and I'm
quoting there's two kinds of diplomacy
in the Middle East one is slow and the
other slower but why is that it's
because America is not serious it's not
an honest broker because it is
Israel's uh lawyer as Aon D Miller once
said in his book it's because each and
every Envoy of each and every
Administration for the past 30 years
since Clinton began that peace process
called the AO process every single Envoy
every single person in charge of that
file of the diplomacy
from uh Elliot Abrahams to Dennis Ross
to Aron Miller himself to Martin endic
who just passed by the way to the likes
of blinkin and so on so there are all
zionists so each and every
Administration gave the dossier of
negotiation between pales zist to are
pronounced Zionist some of them are
moderate zionists some of them are
radical zionists but they are all
zionists and that's why it's not just
slow and slower American diplomacy least
it is a dis honest American Diplomat in
the M least that moved from disastrous
to totally catastrophic that's why 30
years on there is now peace after 30
years 40 Years of peace process and
that's why I don't believe the Biden
Administration when they say they
believe in a two-state solution because
after 10 months of genocide after 10
months of the total Destruction they
cannot even get Israel to agree to a
five week ceasefire how the hell are
they going to get Israel to agree to a
two-state
solution Maran thanks very much for your
time and and putting forward that very
important question and the realities
around
that make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from aler